README.md, before:

# conllu-to-conll-tool

![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-success) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-success) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%2B-blue) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-linux--64-lightgrey) [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=MinionAttack_conllu-to-conll-tool&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=MinionAttack_conllu-to-conll-tool)


Table of contents.

1. [Summary](#summary)
2. [How to use](#how-to-use)
3. [Examples](#examples)
4. [Licensing agreement](#licensing-agreement)

## Summary

This is a tool to convert *CoNLL-U* format files to *CoNLL* format files and manipulate training, validation and test sets.

This script has five features:

1. Convert files in *CoNLL-U* format to *CoNLL* format.
2. Combine several files of a given training phase into one file.
3. Split a training phase file into two files, one file for the training phase and one file for the validation phase.
4. Clean up an embeddings file to remove the first line containing the number of words and the size of the vector.
5. Add a tag and its dimension for unknown words in the embedding file.

**It is important to note that the script uses the _output_ folder as the base directory for both input and output files.**

## How to use

Install the necessary dependencies listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

`$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

To run the script, from a terminal in the root directory, type:

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py`

This will show the usage:

```  
usage: conllu-to-conll.py [-h] --input INPUT [--output OUTPUT]
                          [--combine {train,dev,test}] [--split SPLIT]
                          [--clean CLEAN] [--unknown UNKNOWN UNKNOWN]
conllu-to-conll.py: error: the following arguments are required: --input  
```  

### Note

If you get an error that you do not have permissions to run the script, type:

`$ chmod u+x conllu-to-conll.py`

Run the script again.

## Examples

### 1. Convert files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output conll`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be converted are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to convert several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **conll**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the converted *CoNLL* files shall be generated.

### 2. Combine files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output combined --combine train`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be combined are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to combine several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **combined**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the combined *CoNLL-U* files shall be generated.
- **train**: The type of files to combine. This can be one of the following values: `train`, `dev` or `test`.

### 3. Split files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output splitted --split true`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be splitted are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to split several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
  - Unless the code is modified, the split is **80% for the training phase** and **20% for the validation phase**.
- **splitted**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the splitted (*train* and *dev*) *CoNLL-U* files shall be generated.
- **true**: To do the split, the default value is set to *false*.

### 4. Clean up files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input embeddings --output cleaned --clean true`

- **embeddings**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the embedding files to be cleaned are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to clean several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **cleaned**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the splitted (*train* and *dev*) *CoNLL-U* files shall be generated.
- **true**: To do the cleaning, the default value is set to *false*.

### 5. Fill in files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input fill -unknown unk 100`

- **fill**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the embedding files to be filled in are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to clean several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **unk**: Name of the tag to attach to the embeddings file.
- **100**: The vector dimension for the tag.

## Licensing agreement

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Iago Alonso Alonso

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Implemented the generate functionality. Updated README.md Fixed an error when an empty list is pass to the combine functionality.

README.md, after:

# conllu-to-conll-tool

![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/build-passing-success) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-success) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.6%2B-blue) ![build](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-linux--64-lightgrey) [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=MinionAttack_conllu-to-conll-tool&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=MinionAttack_conllu-to-conll-tool)


Table of contents.

1. [Summary](#summary)
2. [How to use](#how-to-use)
3. [Examples](#examples)
4. [Licensing agreement](#licensing-agreement)

## Summary

This is a tool to convert *CoNLL-U* format files to *CoNLL* format files and manipulate training, validation and test sets.

This script has five features:

1. Convert files in *CoNLL-U* format to *CoNLL* format.
2. Combine several files of a given training phase into one file.
3. Split a training phase file into two files, one file for the training phase and one file for the validation phase.
4. Clean up an embeddings file to remove the first line containing the number of words and the size of the vector.
5. Add a tag with random values for a specific dimension for unknown words in the embedding file. A fixed seed is used to be able to
   reproduce the experiments.
6. Generate an embedding file with the words from the training file and the validation file with random values for a specific dimension. A
   fixed seed is used to be able to reproduce the experiments.

**It is important to note that the script uses the _output_ folder as the base directory for both input and output files.**

## How to use

Install the necessary dependencies listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

`$ pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

To run the script, from a terminal in the root directory, type:

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py`

This will show the usage:

```  
usage: conllu-to-conll.py [-h] --input INPUT [--output OUTPUT]
                          [--combine {train,dev,test}] [--split SPLIT]
                          [--clean CLEAN] [--unknown UNKNOWN UNKNOWN]
                          [--generate GENERATE]
conllu-to-conll.py: error: the following arguments are required: --input  
```  

### Note

If you get an error that you do not have permissions to run the script, type:

`$ chmod u+x conllu-to-conll.py`

Run the script again.

## Examples

### 1. Convert files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output conll`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be converted are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to convert several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **conll**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the converted *CoNLL* files shall be generated.

### 2. Combine files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output combined --combine train`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be combined are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to combine several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **combined**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the combined *CoNLL-U* files shall be generated.
- **train**: The type of files to combine. This can be one of the following values: `train`, `dev` or `test`.

### 3. Split files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input conllu --output splitted --split true`

- **conllu**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the *CoNLL-U* files to be splitted are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to split several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
  - Unless the code is modified, the split is **80% for the training phase** and **20% for the validation phase**.
- **splitted**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the splitted (*train* and *dev*) *CoNLL-U* files shall be generated.
- **true**: To do the split, the default value is set to *false*.

### 4. Clean up files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input embeddings --output cleaned --clean true`

- **embeddings**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the embedding files to be cleaned are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to clean several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each
    language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **cleaned**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the splitted (*train* and *dev*) *CoNLL-U* files shall be
  generated.
- **true**: To do the cleaning, the default value is set to *false*.

### 5. Fill in files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input fill -unknown unk 100`

- **fill**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the embedding files to be filled in are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to fill in several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each
    language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **unk**: Name of the tag to attach to the embeddings file.
- **100**: The vector dimensions for the tag.

### 6. Generate files

`$ ./conllu-to-conll.py --input no_embeddings --output generated --generate 100`

- **no_embeddings**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the files from which the embeddings file will be
  generated are located.
  - You can put the files directly or if you want to generate several languages you can put the files in different folders (one for each
    language), but be aware that the script does not process more than one level of subdirectories.
- **generated**: Directory (must have been created) inside the *output* folder where the generated embeddings files shall be generated.
- **100**: The vector dimensions for the tags.

## Licensing agreement

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Iago Alonso Alonso

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "
Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the
following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
